speaking of the American response US
President Joe Biden has defended
Israel's raid on gaza's largest hospital
he repeated Israeli statements that
Hamas had its headquarters beneath alifa
but neither Israel nor the United States
has provided evidence to back up those
claims here's the
situation you have a circumstance where
the first war crime is being committed
by Hamas by having their headquarters
their military hidden under a hospital
and that's a fact that's what's happened
Israel did not go in with large number
of troops did not raid did not rush
everything down they've gone in and
they've gone in with their soldiers
carrying weapons or
guns they were uh told uh told let me be
precise we've discussed the need for
them to be
incredibly
careful well let's bring in Jeremy skill
he's an independent journalist and a
co-founder of The Intercept News website
he joins us now from Frankfurt in
Germany Jeremy I want to ask you about
the tone of those comments there that we
heard from Biden he's obviously chosen
to continue doubling down on the Israeli
claim that there's this Hamas Command
Center in or under alifa what do you
make of this
call well it's it's it's not surprising
I mean Joe Biden in many ways is staking
his credibility right now on Israeli
intelligence and the Israelis have a
multi- deade track record of lying of
promoting false information of releasing
doctored videos the United States going
back to the Iraq War certainly has its
own experience with promoting false
intelligence so this is a real Gamble
and I think that what we've seen is Joe
Biden using his uh bully pulpit as the
most powerful leader of the most
powerful country in the world to give
cover for the Israelis to continue their
rampage this is a Dresden style bombing
of Gaza where the Israelis have targeted
civilians yes Target Ed civilians one in
200 gazin have been killed so what I
think we saw here is the president of
the United States who for 50 years has
been one of the staunchest backers of
Israel's worst war crimes once again
sticking his deck out and we're told
that there's essentially like a Hamas
Pentagon underneath the shifa hospital
maybe that's true maybe the Israelis are
going to shock the world and they're
going to provide that proof um but the
fact of the matter is that alifa
hospital is desperately needed there are
children babies who were the niku um
there are babies that have died because
of Israel's military operations and so
what the United States is doing in the
form of Joe Biden the president is
co-signing uh systemic Israeli war
crimes and the raising of a population
of 2.2 million people one in 200 of whom
have now been killed since October 7th
Jeremy I was looking at a bit of the
history here and if I understand
correctly Israel built a bunker under
alifa back in the 1980s and they spoke
about it fairly open at the time so what
would the discovery of an underground
facility there mean if they do actually
find
one right and it's not uncommon for
hospitals the world over to have some
infrastructure underneath it especially
if you're in a country where there's
constant fighting and our understanding
is that in 1983 uh the Israelis built uh
some underground tunnels and an
underground operating room so you know
right off the bat we have to say this
you know if the Israelis simply reveal
that there are tunnels under there or a
room um it's because Israel built them
now what Israel alleges is that Hamas
expanded that network of tunnels and
built more structures uh underneath it
and you know it's not a secret many
journalists have met with Hamas members
in or around the vicinity of alifa
Hospital the question is were they using
it for a military purpose you know I
watched the initial so-called evidence
that the Israelis have released you know
I'm I'm an American from the United
States we're a washing guns I've seen
more guns in in the homes of ordinary
Americans than I've seen in this
purported Hamas Pentagon under alifa
Hospital Jeremy are we at a turning
point potentially in this conflict will
what is or isn't underneath alifa
hospital will that change Minds either
in Israel
elsewhere I I don't think that this
specific uh um raid that Israel is doing
is going to change mind I think what
it's going to do is accentuate the
position that people have already
started to take on who the real you know
who sort of who is the gratuitous party
here um certainly Hamas deserves
condemnation for butchering civilians
more than 800 civilians were killed uh
on October 7th um but the fact is that
Israel a member of the United Nations a
nation state that is showered with
American money and weapons is committing
systematic war crimes and I think that
you know 75 years we've been watching
this pogram against the Palestinian
people and I think the world is finally
waking up on a level that is
unprecedented so what I think Israel
miscalculated I think they miscalculated
the extent of what they did and I think
that many nation states and there's
dissent in the United States like we
haven't seen since the Iraq War we now
have 24 members of Congress calling for
a ceasefire you have heads of state
around the world uh openly accusing
Israel of killing babies um this this is
a shift that that um Israel has not been
under this kind of global pressure ever
well let me ask you about Biden's
relationship to Netanyahu now I know
you've written about his close support
for Israel throughout his career you
mentioned that earlier but how does he
actually get along with Netanyahu the
man how how's that whole dynamic
going oh I mean they they they couldn't
be bigger buddies you know Joe Joe Biden
is kind of what likes to portray himself
as a kind of folksy guy from Scranton
Pennsylvania and he repeatedly tells the
same stories he says about about
Netanyahu oh I love you bb but I don't
believe a damn thing you or I don't
agree with a damn thing you ever say
Netanyahu brags about his 30-year
friendship with Biden Netanyahu
notoriously couldn't stand Barack Obama
so Biden was often in the position of
sort of plating Netanyahu um as Obama
and and Netanyahu had clashes but Joe
Biden for 50 years in US public office
has been one of the primary facilitators
of some of the worst excesses of
Israel's policy um in fact sometimes Joe
Biden has taken a position that has been
uh more extreme than Israeli leaders in
the in the invasion of Lebanon in the
early 80 80s uh the Israeli Prime
Minister Manakin Bean said that Joe
Biden was saying that it was justifiable
to kill civilians um in Lebanon and and
monin bean himself is a war criminal
from the 1940s from the the original
Naka so for for Makin Bean to have been
shocked at Joe Biden encouraging or sort
of justifying the killing of civilians
speaks volumes um Joe Biden also says
you don't have to be Jewish to be a
I'm a Zionist he said I'm Israel's best
Catholic friend no jo Biden knows
exactly what he's doing he's very close
to Netanyahu and he's given cover for
some really horrifying war crimes that
apparently are going to continue Jeremy
skill there a co-founder of The
Intercept News website speaking to us
from Frankfurt Germany thank you for
joining us on aler
Jeremy thank you